The Joe Rogan experience.
So when did you get interested in the subject of
UFO's.
That happened at a surprisingly early age?
I was seven years old at a boarding school and the principal of the
school, a friend of his had photographed, uh, video, uh,
an old, real,
a real Kodak movie camera had taken a movie home movie of a video of a
UFO flying in beautiful blue skies,
Cumulus clouds,
huge golden disc that comes into the picture at bags,
goes into a cloud and it disappears into this sort of wispy cloud in a way that
would be very, very hard, I think, to, to fake somehow,
particularly in those days with no computer generated imagery and it comes out
the other side and then sort of goes off over the horizon.
And I was stunned and flabbergasted myself and all
the other kids ran outside that night and we're looking at the stars and it
just, uh, uh, sparked my curiosity, a lifelong curiosity.
So once you got into government and once you were, I mean,
you were there, you're basically there, you had to start asking questions. Like,
did you wait a while? Like how long did you ask for, Hey, what do you guys know?
Oh yeah. Uh, well, uh, for a long time I waited, um,
very rarely. I looked for openings always for opportunities. So, uh,
for example, you know, the stigma is,
is so great that you're reluctant obviously to, uh, to raise that issue.
Couple times there were some national opportunities. So, uh,
one of my colleagues on the intelligence committee was going to Hawaii for some
oversight, uh, trips meetings.
And he went to the Maui, uh, space, optical tracking facility.
And I said to him, why are you're there? Why don't you just check and see,
do they ever see anything weird? They can't explain it so forth. So he did. And,
uh, Pete called me up and said, Hey, you wouldn't believe this.
I've got this videotape here and it's shows these weird things.
And so, uh, I talked to the air force people, they sent the tape to us.
It turns out, it was told to in classified. Um, I showed it to Senator Cohen,
uh, and some others. And it ended up on, uh,
on national TV, uh, actually, but, but didn't generate,
uh, in any further response,
everybody just kind of threw their hands up in the air and said, well, you know,
that's interesting, but, uh, we don't know what to do with it.
It was a Ted Koppel's Nightline show that this tape was played on.
It showed sort of five objects moving parallel to the ground,
possibly in there in the atmosphere because they're burning,
they're interacting with something, uh, you know, was plasma coming off of them,
uh, which would presumably be happening in space,
but they seem to be too slowly meteorites.
So it was mystifying it difficult to explain, never did get an answer. Um,
occasionally something like that would happen by and large.
The issue almost never arose.
The, the,
the issue is a weird issue because if you bring it up in the wrong company
or at the wrong time, you could be dismissed as a loon.
Did you feel that when you were there, like,
as a person who had a budding interest in
unidentified flying objects and what have you,
did you feel like this is a politically risky thing to discuss,
especially to discuss like in serious terms? Like,
do you believe in these things, like, what are they,
what do we know is what was that an issue?
Absolutely. Um, I concealed my interest in the topic, uh,
for years and very carefully and confided to a few trustworthy
friends at a few heart to heart talks with a couple individuals.
When I found a fellow traveler who was interested in this topic,
but by and large, uh, absolutely, uh,
wanted to conceal that and, and not reveal that.
Oh, Clinton. No, no. He would be the guy that I would go to.
There's a request that came to me once that I think was from president
Clinton.
And it was one of the astronauts claimed to have
seen, um, a UFO out at Edwards air force base. And it was videotaped,
he said,
and he described this in his memoir and wanted the president to get
hold of the tape of the video.
And secretary Cohen came back to the Pentagon from a meeting and a
message came down to me to go, to try find this tape. And, uh,
unfortunately there was a, I got, got nowhere with that.
The air force was adamant that there was no such tape.
There was no such information, anything they had on UFO's had been destroyed.
Um, so I had one of these situations is very common in this area,
which is you have just two, apparently credible sources,
but utterly conflicting irreconcilable information,
which seems to happen often in this field.
Now being as you were in government and very close to
literally the machine that runs the world. W what,
what's the general perception when people are discussing these,
these things in, in Washington, what is,
what's the general perception of what's going on with these things?
Well, I'm happy to say that it's changed.
That perception has changed considerably in the last few years.
People feel like they have permission to talk about it.
When do you think this happened?
This happened after the New York times article and subsequent press, uh,
beginning of 2017, December, 2017. And, um,
that sort of gave people permission to talk about this.
And I've actually had Pentagon friends who said, you know, this is kind of cool.
We don't have to go in the closet to talk about this anymore.
You think kept it in the closet before, like when did the stigma start?
And you think this was like intentionally sort of set up this way.
It was, uh,
it was the Robertson panel commission 1953.
And they concluded during the cold war days that this was, uh,
a potential threat to national security because UFO reports might overwhelm our,
our air defense and communication system and that the Soviets might spook
the public and somehow manipulate this issue.
So they actually advocated in writing that this issue be debunked
and discredited and the government, uh, went ahead and did so,
um, extremely successfully, unfortunately.
And this all started with the project blue book, correct?
Correct. It was.
So, uh, what was the gentleman's name that was running project blue book again?
Um, well, there were different people. [inaudible] Allen Hynek.
And hi, Nick went on to become a believer.
So he started debunking and was told essentially the way he
reported it was that he was told to kind of debunk every single case,
everything he could find, whether a swamp gas or, you know,
a ball lightning find some way to explain this away.
But then once he left project blue book,
he started openly discussing these cases and he started discussing his own
belief.
That's correct.
And he felt badly burned as well because he was trying to carry
out his mandate that the air force had given him, as you may recall,
in one instance,
he went to Michigan and famously declared that the people of Michigan were
misconstruing swamp gas for, for flying objects.
And so Gerald Ford,
who was represented that district got incensed as did the local population.
And Congress took a fleeting interest in the topic. And, uh,
Dr. Hynek was very embarrassed. Um, and understandably,
so it was really, uh, quite insulting to these, to these people who had, uh,
had very clear sightings of these objects. So, um,
he did eventually, um, change his view publicly and was very critical of,
of project blue book.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs.
All for free Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.